Hello again.
In this video.
Time permitting we're going to do two things First of all when the player tries to move away in the
middle of an attack.
He keeps on swinging which is looks a little bit crappy.
We want him to stop and say oh I'm now walking and I'm not still trying to swing in the air.
The other thing is when we kill an enemy block we keep on hitting and hitting and hitting which is just
not cool.
So then the two we're going to try to take on and resolve in this video we'll do the first one and then
see how we're doing for time.
So in terms of this first part what I can do is add a couple of extra enemies just so I can see really
clear in my scene if there's any other behavior that's going to go on when I've got more enemies so
just control D to duplicate then hitting W to get my move tool making these enemies around.
Okay.
So now I've got three enemies so to test things out nicely.
And if you have a look at our animator you can see that we have from attack to locomotion our transition
away when we say I want to be walking now we've got has exit time clicked on and that means it will
finish this entire state before the transition happens.
Now that's cool that's valid for our standard we want the player just to be attacking and if we click
a bunch of times on the enemy we don't want it to be restarting the attack over and over over.
So that's cool.
What we can do is add another transition from attack to locomotion with a trigger which is a stop attacking
trigger or stop attack trigger it would be and this is going to be the source of your challenge.
So I want you to cancel the attacks stop the character's animation if we click to move.
So stop the characters attack animation if we click to move and then add another transition out of attack
in our animated controller for a transition from attack to locomotion and then add a new trigger and
coal set trigger.
So call the trigger that you've created and add that somewhere.
This is my vague challenge for you is to figure out where you need to set that trigger of stop attack.
So there's you challenge take that on I'll see you back here when you done
right.
First of all with the now animation here animator sorry from attack we have a transition I'm going to
right click on attack make transition go to locomotion you can see that changes the arrow it's got three
little arrow things in there now to show that we've got multiple transitions if I click on the transition
line up here we've got transition first one in second one click on the second one that's what we're
going to change I'm going to remove has exit time.
Basically we want to be triggering something as a condition we haven't created our trigger yet.
So over within our parameters tab click on the plus and we'll make this a trigger.
I'm going to call this stop attack small s capital a stop attack and then over an hour conditions I'll
click plus select stop attack and there we go just do a bit of a save.
Now we need to figure out where to place this K over into our visual studio code in this video just
so you know I'm working in the health script the fighter script and the combat target script the first
thing we're going to look at is the fighter script.
Now at some point here we're canceling our attack and it's at that point we want to say okay let's change
the animation as well as long as scroll all the way down and find very simple.
Public void cancel where our target equals.
Now just above that I'm going to get component and the component will be the animator and make two or
parentheses set trigger not set but in locations set trigger and what is our trigger.
Well good practice.
Back over to unity.
We click once we click twice.
We hit the controller commands see magically that copies it for us back over into our fighter script
paste that between our quotations and we're saying stop attack.
Now this code meet our current needs but does introduce a really subtle issue that I'm going to explain
in a lot of detail in a couple of videos time.
But for now if you find that you have an issue where your player seems to start the attack and then
stop the attack in a strange way don't worry about it.
That's a known thing that we're going to build on top of and explain and a whole bunch of detail in
a couple of videos.
But for now let's jump over and check this all works click play choose an enemy to slaughter click on
him and then move away.
And the moment I move away there's a little bit of overlap here a little bit of transition Larry to
blending which is good it's not snapping so yeah that looks good he looks like he's like oh no well
no it changed my mind.
Excellent.
I like it.
So let's first part of our video done excellent we've got a little bit of an area here.
I think that's a hangover from something we've done previous I'm going to clear that make sure that
we keep an eye on it.
But for now it looks like it's not breaking anything too bad.
And now for the second part which is once someone's dead you know leave him alone man.
Kill your jets.
No need to keep kicking him when they're down.
So first thing I'm going to go over to my health script and I will write underneath our is dead bull
so we can see we know if the player is dead or he's not dead.
So let's have a way of just accessing that.
Is it a bunch of ways we can do this and they show you the very simple way of doing it and in later
videos.
I think Sam's going to go into a lot more depth on how to create getters and setters.
But for now we're going to create ourselves a public bool we will call is dead.
Is with capital ion capital D is dead parentheses curly braces.
And then in here we're going to return.
What.
What do you think we return will return.
The variable is dead as a simple way of other classes being out of say Are you dead or not just with
this little public.
Get a method.
Now what needs to know.
Well over into fighter.
This is what's going to need to know what's going on.
And one thing I'm going to do Sam and I were talking about this we would like to change out our target
to make it more specific to be looking at health so we know that enemies all enemies must have health.
So instead of just saying that our trans target is type transform let's say that our target is of type
health so that we're very specific in terms of what we're targeting.
But also we get access to anything that we've put within the health class by the fact that we know the
target is of type health.
For example our method that we just our public method we just created is dead.
Now we can access that from our target without having to do any extra specifics of saying get component
of health and so on.
So that will break a couple of things let's go find our red squiggly lines for me line 24 target position.
So now because we before previously target was of type transform we didn't have to specify transformed
position because we knew that already.
But now we need to put in target dot transform dot position I there's another spot we have that.
Okay.
Down here in our Get is in range method target dot transform dot position and then in our attack method
instead of target equals combat target dot transform it's going to be combat target dot get component
and it will be the health component we're getting.
All right we're going health that's just a little bit of a tidy out.
Sometimes it's six of one half a dozen of the other but we feel the more specific you can be with the
variable type.
The more value you can extract from that in this particular instance.
And then we need to do the all important saying if the target's dead then don't continue to attack.
Okay.
That's simply the case of where are we.
Here I'm on line 20 I'm looking at it within our update I'm going to add a new line.
So he's a little mini challenge for you what do we need to write in here so that we don't do any of
these other behaviors.
If the character is dead if the enemy's dead okay what we say is if Target dot is dead because that
returns a bull remember.
Let me just remind you of that over here I created this as a bull a public method bull it's going to
return as a bull.
True or false.
So if Target is dead then we return and then the next thing we want to do is find our hit method in
here.
Tidy this up a little bit.
We don't need to be getting the health component.
So in to remove that and instead of saying health component dot take damage we're going to change this
to be target don't take damage.
Weapon damage because as I said before we're now accessing health from our variable.
Okay.
Saving up jumping back into unity and just a little reminder.
I had forgotten to save health so make sure you save that I had an error for a moment I just pause the
video trying to figure out what was going on I'd just forgotten to say my other script where we had
made a change in here so I make sure you're always safe.
Now back over into unity click on play and then click 1 2 and he's all gone and we stop attacking exactly
what we wanted to do.
And there's one last piece of tidy up we will do to make sure we don't get in problems in the future
is when we have a look at enemy.
You can see that we've got the fighter script we've got the health script and we've got the target combat
target.
So if the health script wasn't there if we'd forgotten to put it on for example if I removed this component
then we will have all manner of mischief where we've baked that in pretty heavily that we as assuming
that it has a health component.
So what we can do so that we don't have to assume we don't have to remember it in combat target.
We'll put out the very top of our script here.
Square braces require a component parentheses type of parentheses again it's going to be health and
in parentheses parentheses good.
No need for a semicolon.
So this is now saying that whenever we place combat target it is going to automatically place a health
component as well.
Let me just show you that in action.
I'll just do a quick undo to get my enemy back to the way it was.
So now when we click on an enemy you can see if I was to go and try to remove health.
Right click remove component it says can't remove health because combat target depends on it.
If I was to go and make a new game object so create empty just to prove a point here.
If I add the component of combat Target when I drag it over look what happens.
It automatically adds a health script as well which is really cool.
So basically it's saying you can't have a combat target without a health.
That protects us from any situations where we are assuming in here that we're looking for a health component
on a combat target.
Okay.
Just gonna get in my game object this.
So it's not laying around.
Good stuff and I'll see you in an upcoming video.